Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit esse quam nihilmolestiae consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nullapariatur?"1914 translation by H. Rackham"But I must explain to you how all this mistaken idea of denouncing pleasure and praising pain was born and Iwill give you a complete account of the system, and expound the actualteachings of the great explorer of the truth, the master-builder of humanhappiness. No one rejects, dislikes, or avoids pleasure itself, because itis pleasure, but because those who do not know how to pursue pleasure rationallyencounter consequences that are extremely painful.Nor again is there anyone wholoves or pursues or desires to obtain pain of itself, because it is pain, butbecauseoccasionally circumstances occur in which toil and pain can procure himsome great pleasure. To take a trivial example, which of us ever undertakeslaborious physical exercise, except to obtain some advantage from it? But whohas anyright to find fault with a man who chooses to enjoy a pleasure that hasno annoying consequences, or one who avoidsa pain that produces no resultantpleasure?"Section 1.10.33 of "de Finibus Bonorum et Malorum", written by Ciceroin 45 BC"At vero eos et accusamus et iusto odio dignissimos ducimus quiblanditiis praesentium voluptatum deleniti atque corrupti quos dolores etquas molestias excepturi sint occaecati cupiditate non provident, similiquesunt in culpaqui officia deserunt mollitia animi, id est laborum et dolorumfuga. Et harum quidem rerum facilis est et expeditadistinctio. Nam liberotempore, cum soluta nobis est eligendi optio cumque nihil impedit quo minusid quod maxime placeatfacere possimus, omnis voluptas assumenda est, omnisdolor repellendus. Temporibus autem quibusdam et aut officiis debitis autrerum necessitatibus saepe eveniet ut et voluptates repudiandae sint et molestiae non recusandae. Itaque earum rerum  hic tenetur a sapiente delectus, ut aut reiciendis v  oluptatibus maiores alias consequatur aut perferendis dolori  busasperiores repellat."1914 translation by H. Rackham"On the oth  er hand, we denounce with righteous indignation and dislike men who are   so beguiled and demoralized by thecharms of pleasure of the moment, so bli   nded by desire, that they cannot foresee the pain and trouble that are boundtoensue; and equal blame belongs to those who fail in their duty through weakness of will, which is the same as sayingthrough shr inking from toil and pain. These cases are perfectly simple and easy to distinguish. In a free hour, when ourpower of choice is untramm elled and when nothing prevents our being able to do what we like best, every pleasure is tobe welcomed and every pain avoided. But in certain circumstances and owing to the claims of duty or the obligations of business it will frequently occur that pleasures have to be repudiated and annoyances accepted. The wise man therefore always holds in these matters to this principle of selection: he rejects pleasures to secure other greater pleasures,orelse he endures pains to avoid worse pains."